experimental/packages/opentelemetry-configuration/README.md, before:

# OpenTelemetry SDK for Node.js

[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

**Note: This is an experimental package under active development. New releases may include breaking changes.**

This package provides the configuration for OpenTelemetry JavaScript SDK.

## Quick Start

**Note: Much of OpenTelemetry JS documentation is written assuming the compiled application is run as CommonJS.**
For more details on ECMAScript Modules vs CommonJS, refer to [esm-support](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/blob/main/doc/esm-support.md).

To get started you need to install `@opentelemetry/configuration`.

### Installation

```sh
# Install the package
npm install @opentelemetry/configuration
```

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat

Commit message:

wip generate types for otel config schema

experimental/packages/opentelemetry-configuration/README.md, after:

# OpenTelemetry Configuration for Node.js

[![Apache License][license-image]][license-image]

**Note: This is an experimental package under active development. New releases may include breaking changes.**

This package provides the configuration for OpenTelemetry JavaScript SDK.

## Quick Start

**Note: Much of OpenTelemetry JS documentation is written assuming the compiled application is run as CommonJS.**
For more details on ECMAScript Modules vs CommonJS, refer to [esm-support](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/blob/main/doc/esm-support.md).

To get started you need to install `@opentelemetry/configuration`.

### Installation

```sh
# Install the package
npm install @opentelemetry/configuration
```

## Type Definitions

This package includes TypeScript type definitions generated from the official [OpenTelemetry Configuration Schema](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-configuration).

### Regenerating Types

To regenerate the TypeScript types from the latest schema:

```sh
npm run generate:config
```

## Useful links

- For more information on OpenTelemetry, visit: <https://opentelemetry.io/>
- For more about OpenTelemetry JavaScript: <https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js>
- For help or feedback on this project, join us in [GitHub Discussions][discussions-url]

## License

Apache 2.0 - See [LICENSE][license-url] for more information.

[discussions-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/discussions
[license-url]: https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/blob/main/LICENSE
[license-image]: https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache_2.0-green.svg?style=flat
