doc/contributing/releasing.md, before:

# Releasing

This document is aimed at Maintainers and describes how to release a new version of the packages contained in this repository.
We aim to eventually automate this process as much as possible.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must have another maintainer approve the deployment to NPM. Make sure to coordinate with them before starting the release process.
> Never approve deployments that were not coordinated with you ahead of time.

## 1. Create a release PR

1. Go to the [Release PR Workflow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/actions/workflows/create-or-update-release-pr.yml)
2. Click "Run workflow"
3. For `Release Type`, select if you want to create a release PR for a new `minor` or `patch` version.
4. For `Release Scope`, select if you want to release
   - `experimental` (all packages under `./experimental/packages`)
   - `sdk` (all packages under `./packages/` and `./experimental/packages`)
   - `all` (all packages under `./api/`, `./packages/` and `./experimental/packages`; excludes `./semantic-conventions/`)
   - `semconv` (the single semconv package at `./semantic-conventions/`)

> [!TIP]
> If there was a commit to `main`, after PR creation simply run the workflow again before merging it.
> Re-running it will update the PR with the contents from `main` and will update the PR body too.

## 2. Review and merge the release PR

1. Review the PR generated via the workflow (it will be titled `chore: prepare next release` and opened by [otelbot[bot]](https://github.com/apps/otelbot))
2. Once approved, merge the PR

## 3. Publish to NPM

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This step will publish anything that's on `main` IF AND ONLY IF the version has been bumped. If the version for a package
> has not been bumped, it will not publish a new version of the package.

1. Go to the [NPM publish workflow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/actions/workflows/publish-to-npm.yml)
2. Click "Run workflow" (from main)
3. Get another maintainer to approve the workflow run
   1. Have them navigate to the workflow run, and then click on "Review pending deployments" ![workflow job waiting for deployment approval](./releasing/waiting-for-approvals.png)
   2. They should then check the box and select "Approve and deploy" ![approve and deploy button](./releasing/approve-and-deploy.png) to approve the deployment to NPM.

## 4. Troubleshooting NPM publishing issues

> [!NOTE]
> You can skip this step if the `publish-to-npm` workflow completed successfully.

- New packages that have never been published before cannot be published this way - contact an `@opentelemetry` org Admin to publish them manually.
- In rare cases not all packages are published due to a race when publishing, if you suspect this to be the case, re-run the workflow.
  This will only publish packages that failed to publish the first time around. Repeat [Step 3: Publish to NPM](#3-publish-to-npm) until all packages are published.

## 5. Create GitHub Releases

1. Check out the commit created by merging the release PR
2. Run
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:experimental`, if you published an `all`, `sdk` or `experimental` release
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:stable`, if you published an `all` or `sdk` release
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:semconv`, if you published a `semconv` release
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:api` if you published an `all` release
3. Verify that the contents of the created draft releases (title, changelog, selected commit)
4. Publish the releases
   - uncheck `Set as a pre-release` for all releases
   - uncheck `Set as the latest release` for all releases except for the `stable` SDK release. This will ensure that the
     `stable` SDK release consistently shows up as latest under `Releases` when navigating to the project page.

Commit message:

ci: allow different release bumps for groups (#6397)

doc/contributing/releasing.md, after:

# Releasing

This document is aimed at Maintainers and describes how to release a new version of the packages contained in this repository.
We aim to eventually automate this process as much as possible.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> You must have another maintainer approve the deployment to NPM. Make sure to coordinate with them before starting the release process.
> Never approve deployments that were not coordinated with you ahead of time.

## 1. Create a release PR

1. Go to the [Release PR Workflow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/actions/workflows/create-or-update-release-pr.yml)
2. Click "Run workflow"
3. Configure which packages to release and their version bump type:
   - **Stable SDK packages** (`./packages/*`): Select `minor`, `patch`, or `inherit` (no release unless required)
   - **Experimental packages** (`./experimental/packages/*`): Select `minor`, `patch`, or `inherit` (automatically inherits from Stable SDK if Stable SDK is released)
   - **API package** (`./api`): Select `minor`, `patch`, or `inherit` (no release). When set, makes Stable SDK and Experimental packages inherit the same version bump.
   - **Semantic Conventions** (`./semantic-conventions`): Select `minor`, `patch`, or `inherit` (no release)

**Release Rules:**

- If you release Stable SDK packages, Experimental packages will automatically inherit the same version bump type (unless you explicitly set Experimental to a different value)
- If you use "API package", it will make both Stable SDK and Experimental packages inherit the same version bump
- You cannot set "API package" to a specific version while also setting Stable SDK or Experimental to different bumps (the workflow will fail)
- Semantic Conventions can be released independently or alongside other packages

> [!TIP]
> If there was a commit to `main`, after PR creation simply run the workflow again before merging it.
> Re-running it will update the PR with the contents from `main` and will update the PR body too.

## 2. Review and merge the release PR

1. Review the PR generated via the workflow (it will be titled `chore: prepare next release` and opened by [otelbot[bot]](https://github.com/apps/otelbot))
2. Once approved, merge the PR

## 3. Publish to NPM

> [!IMPORTANT]
> This step will publish anything that's on `main` IF AND ONLY IF the version has been bumped. If the version for a package
> has not been bumped, it will not publish a new version of the package.

1. Go to the [NPM publish workflow](https://github.com/open-telemetry/opentelemetry-js/actions/workflows/publish-to-npm.yml)
2. Click "Run workflow" (from main)
3. Get another maintainer to approve the workflow run
   1. Have them navigate to the workflow run, and then click on "Review pending deployments" ![workflow job waiting for deployment approval](./releasing/waiting-for-approvals.png)
   2. They should then check the box and select "Approve and deploy" ![approve and deploy button](./releasing/approve-and-deploy.png) to approve the deployment to NPM.

## 4. Troubleshooting NPM publishing issues

> [!NOTE]
> You can skip this step if the `publish-to-npm` workflow completed successfully.

- New packages that have never been published before cannot be published this way - contact an `@opentelemetry` org Admin to publish them manually.
- In rare cases not all packages are published due to a race when publishing, if you suspect this to be the case, re-run the workflow.
  This will only publish packages that failed to publish the first time around. Repeat [Step 3: Publish to NPM](#3-publish-to-npm) until all packages are published.

## 5. Create GitHub Releases

1. Check out the commit created by merging the release PR
2. Run
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:experimental`, if you published an `api`, `sdk` or `experimental` release
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:stable`, if you published an `api` or `sdk` release
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:semconv`, if you published a `semconv` release
   - `npm run _github:draft_release:api` if you published an `api` release
3. Verify that the contents of the created draft releases (title, changelog, selected commit)
4. Publish the releases
   - uncheck `Set as a pre-release` for all releases
   - uncheck `Set as the latest release` for all releases except for the `stable` SDK release. This will ensure that the
     `stable` SDK release consistently shows up as latest under `Releases` when navigating to the project page.
